.TH imstar(1) WCS "12 December 1996"
.SH Name
imstar \- Find stars in FITS and IRAF image files
.SH Synopsis
imstar  [options] FITS or IRAF filename
.SH Description
.SH Options
.TP
.B \-a <angle>
Initial rotation angle in degrees (default 0)
.TP
.B /-b
Output B1950 (FK4) coordinates (default=image equinox)
.TP
.B /-c <RA> <Dec>
Use following RA and Dec as center 
.TP
.B \-d <catalog name>
Use this DAOFIND output catalog of X, Y, and magnitude instead of searching
for stars in the image.  The format is simply white-space-separated numbers
on a line, with # at the beginning of comment lines.
.TP
.B /-e <num>
Number of pixels to ignore around image edge 
.TP
.B /-f
Write a simple ASCII catalog file instead of tab table or DAOFIND format
(number RA DEC mag ... per line)
.TP
.B /-h
Print heading, else do not 
.TP
.B /-i <num>
Minimum peak value for star in image (<0=-sigma)
Setting this to reject all but 10-15 stars is a good way to speed up the
star-finding process.  If num is less than zero, the minimum peak is -num
image pixel standard deviations.  Setting this number rejects faint stars
early in the selection process for a significant saving in computing time.
.TP
.B /-j
Output J2000 (FK5) coordinates (default=image equinox)
.TP
.B /-k
Print each star as it is found for debugging 
.TP
.B /-m <magnitude>
Magnitude offset
.TP
.B /-n
Number of brightest stars to print 
.TP
.B /-r
Maximum radius for star in pixels 
.TP
.B /-s
Sort by RA instead of flux 
.TP
.B /-t
Tab table to standard output as well as file
.TP
.B /-v
Verbose listing of processing intermediate results
.TP
.B /-w
Write output file in DAOFIND format and create the name by adding .dao
to the image file name.  The first three numbers on each line of the
output file are X, Y, and magnitude, separated by one or more blanks or
a tab.  Lines beginning with # are ignored.
.TP
.B /-z
Use AIPS classic projection code (for "-SIN", "-TAN", "-ARC", "-NCP",
"-GLS", "-MER", "-AIT" and "-STG" only) instead of WCSLIB proposed
standard projection code.

.SH Author
Doug Mink, SAO (dmink@cfa.harvard.edu)
