.TH imwcs(1) WCS "12 December 1996"
.SH Name
imwcs \- Set WCS in FITS and IRAF image files
.SH Synopsis
imwcs [options] FITS or IRAF filename
.SH Description
.I imwcs
(pronounced im-W-C-S) is a utility for setting the world coordinate system
(WCS) of a FITS or IRAF image. The WCS is the relationship between sky
coordinates and image pixels and can be described in a standard way in the
header of an image. The program was originally written at the University
of Iowa, but has been adapted and amplified by Doug Mink at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. 

.I imwcs
currently works only on images where the rotation about the center is
known to within a few degrees It has been tested extensively only on
images with near-zero rotation. 

A plane-tangent projection (center right ascension and declination, plate
scale, and rotation angle) is fit based on matches between stars in the
image and stars in a reference catalog. The HST Guide Star Catalog,
the USNO UJ Catalog, the USNO A Catalog, or a user-supplied, tab-delimited
Starbase catalog may be used. 

.SH Options
.TP
.B \-a <angle>
Initial rotation angle in degrees (default 0)
.TP
.B \-b <RA> <Dec>
Initial center in B1950 (FK4) RA and Dec (default=RA,DEC from file)
.TP
.B \-c <catalog name>
Reference catalog (gsc, uac, ujc, usac, or tab table file) (default=gsc)
.TP
.B \-d <catalog name>
Use this DAOFIND output catalog of X, Y, and magnitude instead of searching
for stars in the image.  The format is simply white-space-separated numbers
on a line, with # at the beginning of comment lines.
.TP
.B \-f
Write FITS output no matter what input
.TP
.B \-g <class>
Guide Star Catalog class (-1=all,0,3) (default -1)
.TP
.B \-h <number>
Change the maximum number of reference stars to match from 25 to
.B <number>

.TP
.B \-i <counts>
Minimum peak value for star in image (<0=-sigma)
.TP
.B \-j <RA> <Dec>
Initial center in J2000 (FK5) RA and Dec (default=RA,DEC from file)
.TP
.B \-l
Reflect left<->right before rotating and fitting
.TP
.B \-m <magnitude>
Initial GSC, UAC, USAC, or UJC limiting magnitude (default 17)
.TP
.B \-n <number>
Number of parameters to fit (2-5). The default is 2 (RA+Dec) if <3 stars
are matched, 3 (RA+Dec+scale) if <5 stars are matched, or 4 (RA+Dec+scale+rot)
if 5 or more stars are matched.  To fit separate plate scales in X and Y, this
argument must be explicitly set to 5.  Alternatively this may be a list of
all of the parameters to fit, in the form nnnnnn.., where 1=RA, 2=Dec,
3=RA scale, 4=Dec scale, 5=rotation angle, 6=chip rotation angle,
7=RA reference pixel, and 8=Dec reference pixel.
.TP
.B \-o <filename>
Write output to this file; may be the same as input file.  This option
automatically sets the
.B \-w
option to write the file.
.TP
.B \-p <scale>
Initial plate scale in arcsec per pixel (default 0)
.TP
.B \-r <angle>
Rotation angle in degrees before fitting (default 0)
.TP
.B \-s <frac>
Use this fraction extra stars (default 1.0)
.TP
.B \-t <num>
Offset tolerance in pixels (default 20)
.TP
.B \-u <num>
UJ or UA catalog single plate number to accept (default all)
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose listing of processing intermediate results
.TP
.B \-w
Write WCS to a new file (default is read-only)
.SH Author
Doug Mink, SAO (dmink@cfa.harvard.edu)
