.TH setpix(1) WCS "14 September 1999"
.SH Name
setpix \- Set FITS or IRAF image values
.SH Synopsis
setpix [-vn] file.fts [x_range y_range value] [@valuefile]
.SH Description
Set a specified pixel or range of pixels in a FITS or IRAF image to a
specified value. More than one range of pixels and values may be specified
on one command line. A file of xrange yrange value triplets may be used
to set multiple regions at once. The image may be overwritten or a new
image created. 
.SH Options
.TP
.B filename 
Name of IRAF image header file or FITS file. This must be present. 
.TP
.B @coordfile 
Name of file containing lines of the format 
         xrange yrange value
where xrange and yrange are of the format n or n-n or n,n,n or n-n,n-n
and value my be integer or floating point.  value will be converted to
the type of the image. If a range is 0, the entire row or column specified
by the other non-zero range will be set to the indicated value. If both
ranges are zero, the entire image will be set to the specified value.
New in version 2.6.4. 
.TP
.B xrange yrange value 
Image coordinate x and y ranges and the value to which that region will
be set. Either one of these triplets or a file of triplets, specified by
@filename, must be present. xrange and yrange are of the format n or n-n
or n,n,n or n-n,n-n and value my be integer or floating point. value will
be converted to the type of the image. If a range is 0, the entire row or
column specified by the other non-zero range will be set to the indicated
value. If both ranges are zero, the entire image will be set to the
specified value. Ranges new in version 2.6.4. 
.TP
.B \-v 
Print more information about the process 
.TP
.B \-n 
Write the output to a new file which is named by inserting an e before
the file extension. The new file is always written to the current working
directory. 

.SH Author
Doug Mink, SAO (dmink@cfa.harvard.edu)
